# Scan QR code for DigiAsset distribution

### Submitted by
@ChillingSilence

### Bounty details
There is currently no bounty available for this

### Is this being worked on?
Not yet

### Specifics
At the moment mass distribution of a DigiAsset can be cumbersome

In this scenario we look specifically at users, say, who want to post a QR code and allow users to "redeem" and obtain a DigiAsset. This QR code could be posted either to Twitter, or, on a jumbotron at a Basketball game.

The easiest way to do this would be to have a website that takes care of the distribution, with the QR code taking the user to a specific URL where they can interact with a service and get themselves a DigiAsset.

Ideally the user would authenticate with Digi-ID (And potentially something such as reCAPTCHA to prevent automated attempts at sucking the DigiAsset supply dry), then once they've "signed in" they paste an address and get sent the DigiAsset.

A few things need to happen for this in terms of the "setup" from the user wishing to distribute their DigiAsset. Firstly they need an address to send the DigiAsset to so that it can be distributed through the website. Secondly, they need to define how many the user can obtain (Say, a max of 10, or a max of 1). Finally, they're going to need to "credit" their account with some DigiAssets both to cover server-costs, but also most specifically for the blockchain costs.

Every DigiAsset UTXO needs 600->1200 Sats, plus a tx-fee of maybe 5X that for miners. If you have 1000 DigiAssets to distribute, you're going to want 0.06000000 DGB just for those fees. Not a lot at present I'm aware, however worth considering. As such, this will also need to be deposited to the website by the user wanting their DigiAsset distributed, and this is also going to depend on just how many of the DigiAssets are needing to be distributed. Presumably it's safest to assume each DigiAsset is being sent to a different address, and so to expect for the maximum amount of tx-fees. However, I would also envisage a batch-sending could be done at the DigiAsset distributors discretion perhaps, to "be kind to the blockchain" etc.


### Work progress

| Date | Milestone |
| --- | --- |
| 1/6/2020 | Submitted for inclusion |
