# Make mobile more newbie-friendly

### Submitted by
@ChillingSilence

### Bounty details
There is currently no bounty available for this

### Is this being worked on?
Not yet

### Specifics
There are a number of ways that we can improve upon things for our mobile applications to specifically help hand-hold newbies and make their first DigiByte experience even easier. This came about after I sat down and videoed purchasing DigiByte with my mother: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vAW-qNarOrU

Ways we can improve:
1. Work on a first-run wizard style walkthrough. iOS has one already that we can build upon (Android has none at present). Require a minimum of, say, 5 seconds per screen so they can't just "skip" and are forced to read it.
2. Don't allow people to skip their recovery phrase process at all, it's a bad idea and people will lose their crypto
3. Explain the difference between the PIN vs the Recovery Phrase (PIN is so you can give your phone to a friend and they can't get in to it, Recovery Phrase for if you get a new phone)
4. Allow users to enable FaceID / TouchID / Fingerprint Auth immediately after taking their 6-digit PIN
5. Suggest ways they can keep their Recovery Phrase safe
6. Recovery Phrase confirmation screen on Android should ideally show the user that there's two, larger font sizes hides the bottom one (accessibility request here)
7. On the main "Transactions screen" when the user first is presented there, we should have some sort of overlay explaining "Want to get an address to give to someone so you can get your first DigiByte?" and a big arrow pointing down to the bottom of the screen where the "+" is, then to take them to Receiving Address
8. Our "Share" options are rather convoluted. It's great we don't have any text, saves translations, but there's way too many options. Ideally just a "share" and that's it. Copy / Paste of an address should be primary (And just one "share" button for that), OR have a second share button that shows when the QR code has been tapped on to full-screen it that can be used to share the image. I'm not convinced we should have CoinRequests in the official DigiByte app, perhaps this can be discussed in an issue here on GitHub? We should remain independent from any 3rd-parties lest we show preference for some but not others
9. I'm not convinced we should have the USD / GBP etc value displayed by default, especially where the device locale is incorrect. I think we should be encouraging users to look at 3rd-party places for if they want to find out the fiat-value and on any newly created wallets it's probably worth not having that shown?

### Work progress

| Date | Milestone |
| --- | --- |
| 22/6/2020 | Submitted for inclusion |
